
The reasons for which people wish to pray is a vast valley in the gates of spirituality. I shall therefore be articulating this topic from a personal perspective. 

Observe prayer cloven from faith and find that for many, prayer or a persistent spiritual practice delegated to an agent provides them with a deeper essence of peace and comfort that of which spiritual belief may not be a reason. To many, prayer propounded to man as a form of meditation or mindfulness can be blissful and beautiful to a soul, striking similitude to the blooming of a lotus. Verily, such substrates of prayer can expand its essence to even providing someone with a meaningful fulfilment in their walk of life, redundant of a deity. This cascade vanishes for a multitude of man when we observe a system of devotion forced by certain delegates of the religious enterprise, in my case the Islamic concept of prayer; Salah.

Reaching certain junctures of my life, particularly at my time of being a passionate student of Islam and **advocate** of Salafism. What reached me was a terrifying statement of alternate normalisation of a reality. To myself this had been words cascading on deaf ears, not seeing an issue with the following.

>  Allah revealed to me a revelation, and He made obligatory for me fifty prayers every day and night. Then I went down to Moses (peace be upon him) and he said: What has your Lord enjoined upon your Ummah? I said: Fifty prayers. He said: Return to thy Lord and beg for reduction (in the number of prayers), for your community shall not be able to bear this burden. As I have put to test the children of Isra'il and tried them (and found them too weak to bear such a heavy burden). He (the Holy Prophet) said: I went back to my Lord and said: My Lord, make things lighter for my Ummah. (The Lord) reduced five prayers for me. I went down to Moses and said. (The Lord) reduced five (prayers) for me, He said: Verily thy Ummah shall not be able to bear this burden; return to thy Lord and ask Him to make things lighter. I then kept going back and forth between my Lord Blessed and Exalted and Moses, till He said: There are five prayers every day and night. O Muhammad, each being credited as ten, so that makes fifty prayers. He who intends to do a good deed and does not do it will have a good deed recorded for him; and if he does it, it will be recorded for him as ten; whereas he who intends to do an evil deed and does not do, it will not be recorded for him; and if he does it, only one evil deed will be recorded. I then came down and when I came to Moses and informed him, he said: Go back to thy Lord and ask Him to make things lighter. Upon this, the Messenger of Allah remarked: I returned to my Lord until I felt ashamed before Him.

[Sahih Muslim](https://sunnah.com/muslim) » [The Book of Faith - كتاب الإيمان](https://sunnah.com/muslim/1) 