Beware of indoctrination and it's pangs. Observe the likes of heavily indoctrinated religious people; predisposed to beauty and compassion turned engrossed in opposition and impossible to deal with. The brain and its neural pathways altered and physically changed on the path of spiritual and moral stagnation, defending irrational and misguided beliefs, fantasies regardless of the rational and recognized truths and scientific facts presented to them.

Verily, Indoctrination and its damage can be everlasting; a menacing persuasive serpent that feasts on the emotional conditioning of the human mind. Such a serpent can influence people to blindly accept falsehoods and reject reality, and because of some truly grotesque actions. For some like myself had, it's possible to help others break free from the indoctrination by appealing to their emotions, by showing them how they have failed to provide evidence and reasoning for what they claim as facts, and by questioning their beliefs.

Let the essence of humbleness and love for one another guide us to the progression of our natural world, the accession of our species. Let us hold the path of truth and wisdom dear to us. Behold, education and our ability of critical thinking is your road and barrier between you and the parasitic mechanisms of this world. Indeed, the benefactors of deception stay steadfast in their desires of domination, that of which their victims perceive not. 

Let us strive to nurture of our minds with wisdom and sciences, staying hungry for knowledge. These are the quintessence of navigation in the world of complexities. O readers! Uphold your scepticism when cloving the Ideologies of your forefathers. Beware that emotions can propound to the soul, a great cascade that inside is blinding, such is from the realm of Indoctrination. The criminals of falsehood are steadfast in their tactics. Such criminals are sterns in ensnaring the human condition with their alluring appeal.

Unfortunate is the matter that multitudes of man will fall prey to what their mind finds comfort, such people are stern in their way. Observe the people of presuppositionalists, and you will such aforementioned in abundance.  

Behold, a misused parasitic mechanism from the realm of deception; mass conformity. Beware of such a potent tool. Such calamity can have devastation and pressure as its quintessence. Indeed, its malicious power can impede and retard the exercise of free thought. Beware: such calamity is the antithesis of perusing the truth.

Such pressure is grave and is a shackle to the mind of the masses; it tears critical thinking from the hearts of many. This parasitic mechanism chastises its disciples that of who wish to seek an alternate to their path. They say “Misguided and deviant are those who desire other than our own” Let be it imperative oh reader that you foster a culture of intellectual diversity. 